Pocket Dictionary 📖
A command-line tool to help you build, practice, and master your English vocabulary. Look up words, save them to a personal list, and test your knowledge with intelligent quizzes.
Features
📚 Instant Definitions: Look up any English word to get its definitions, parts of speech, and phonetic spelling.
💾 Personal Word List: Automatically save every word you look up to a personal vocabulary list.
✍️ Manual Management: Manually add or remove words from your list at any time.
🧠 Quick Recall Quiz: A fast-paced quiz to review your saved words.
🎯 Advanced Testing: A "guess the word" quiz based on definitions, which intelligently prioritizes words you struggle with.
📊 Progress Tracking: The test mode tracks your correct/incorrect answers and shows you a full statistical summary.
Getting Started
Follow these steps to get the Pocket Dictionary running on your local machine.
Prerequisites
You need to have Python 3 installed. You also need to install the requests library to fetch word definitions from the online API.
Installation
Clone the repository (or download main.py)
git clone https://github.com/your_username/pocket-dictionary.git
cd pocket-dictionary


Install the required package
pip install requests


Usage
All commands are run from your terminal. The basic structure is python main.py [COMMAND] [ARGUMENT].
Core Commands
Command
Description
lookup <word>
Looks up a word's definition and saves it to your list.
add <word>
Manually adds a word to your list without a lookup.
remove <word>
Removes a word from your list.
list
Shows all words currently saved in your list, sorted alphabetically.
random
Starts a quick-fire quiz to review words. Press ENTER for the next word.
test
Starts an advanced quiz where you guess the word from its definition.

Quiz Example (test)
The test command is the best way to practice.
Run the command:
python main.py test


The program will display a definition. Type the word you think it is and press ENTER.
The program will tell you if you were correct and then present the next definition.
To end the quiz, press Ctrl+C. You will see a summary of your performance.
How It Works
The program automatically creates a hidden directory in your user home folder (~/.pocket_dictionary/) to store your data:
word.txt: A simple text file containing your list of saved words, one per line.
weights.json: A file that stores your quiz progress. It tracks how often you get each word right or wrong, ensuring that words you find difficult appear more frequently in the test quiz.

